Chapter4 (#50)
UBC-MDS/ds-toolbox: chapters/en/slides/module4/module4_03.md

---
type: slides
title: 'module4_03'
---

# Revert your changes

---
# Revert your changes

**reset hard** ✔️
**revert** ⬅️

> Notes: We have already learn how to undo changes deleting our project history with **reset hard**. But what if we want to keep track of the reversion? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notes: We have already learned how to undo changes and delete our project history with **`git reset --hard`**. But what if we want to keep track of the reversion? 
```

>  There is other way to go back in time that is **revert** your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 There is another way to go back in time, and that is to **revert** your changes.
```

---

> #  Revert your changes: move to a previous commit (JupyterLab)

Reviewer: I'd suggest "Go back to" instead of "move to", because reversion implies going back to some previous state and "Go back to" would probably fit the context better here.

```suggestion
#  Revert your changes: Go back to a previous commit (JupyterLab)
```

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-revert.png' width="80%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes:

> If you want to revert your changes you can clink in the arrow icon in the commit you want to go back in the JupyterLab's tab History.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to revert your changes, you can click the arrow icon in the commit you want to go back to in JupyterLab's "History" tab.
```

> When you revert your changes, you don't loose the history of the project. This means that you are going to create a new commit where you are saving the information that you have deleted that particular commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you revert changes, you don't lose the history of the project. This means that you are going to create a new commit which reflects the fact that some intermediate commits have been reverted.
```

---

# Revert your changes: move to a previous commit (JupyterLab)

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-revert-2.png' width="80%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes:

> When you click the arrow, JupyterLab request you the commit title and description for thet reversion. You can keep here the preloaded name or find a more meaningful one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click the arrow, JupyterLab asks you for the commit title and description for that reversion. You can either keep the preloaded name here or find a more meaningful one.
```

---

# Revert your changes: move to a previous commit (JupyterLab)

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-revert-3.png' width="80%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes:

> Now you can see that you have a new commit and your project has travel back in time! Remember to push your changes if you want to keep your remote updated. This is particularly important if you are working with other colleagues that cna be modifying the part that have deleted!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can see that you have a new commit, and your project has travelled back in time! Remember to push your changes if you want to keep your remote updated. This is particularly important if you are working with other collaborators who might be modifying the part that has been deleted!
```

---

# Revert your changes: move to a previous commit (terminal)

`git revert <commit id>`

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-revert-t.png' width="80%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes:
If you want to do this with the terminal you will have to provide the SHA-1 code to identify the commit.

---

# Revert your changes: move to a previous commit (terminal)

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-revert-t2.png' width="80%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes:

> After writing the command, the editor will pop up so you can modify the final commit message. If you close it as it is the message will be the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the command, the editor will pop up so you can modify the final commit message. If you close it as it is, the message will be the default one.
```

> You will see that after closing the editor, not you have a new commit updated with the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see that after closing the editor, now you have a new commit updated with the changes.
```
